[AUDIO LOGO]
>> The chakras can teach us
how to work with our quantum
functions and how to engage
with the quantum field in deeper
and more profound ways.
It's almost as if we were
designed with an augmentation
system, an advanced technology
that would enable us to relate
with the universe in fantastic
and almost unimaginably advanced
ways.
>> Where ancient wisdom and
modern research converge,
Divine Science emerges.
For centuries,
tantric traditions
originating in
ancient India have
spoken of chakras, vital
energy centers that
run along the spine, and that
govern the flow of life force
within us.
Each of these chakras influences
different aspects of our lives,
holding the potential to
guide us toward optimal health
and well-being.
But what if these energetic
vortices aren't just
moderating internal energies?
What if they are finely tuned
interfaces, biological gateways
to engage with the
quantum field itself?
>> In the Vedic tradition
of the Far East,
we have seven basic chakras.
The word in Sanskrit
means wheel or wheel work.
When we speak of chakras,
we're speaking of those energy
thresholds where basing events
of biophysical and genetic
engineering take place.
>> The chakras are energetic
vortices of space time,
where a subtle quantum field
resonance is vibrating its way
into the center of the body,
bringing in specific information
for a specific purpose.
Each of the chakras is
an interface to reality.
The same way as a computer has
a power cable, a USB cable,
a video port, we have different
ports within our bodies
that allow us to have different
kinds of external experience
and manage that experience from
a single, unified operating
system.
>> The chakras in the Vedic
system come mostly from tantric
tradition that uses techniques
to inspire different parts
of the physiology and
energy in the body.
And our body has
different aspects to it
that correspond to different
physiological areas,
starting from the seat of the
body where we are sitting,
the pelvic area, and
going gradually up
to the head where we have
the highest value there.
>> This ancient practice of
looking at how we receive
and exchange energy with the
universe around us was refined
into a formula where we would
look at each of the facets
of how we experience the world
and learn to interpret those
as different organs
inside of our being.
In the same way as
your heart pumps blood
and your stomach digests
food, each of your chakras
complete a certain part
of your process in how
you relate with everything.
These vehicles are more
than just ancient concepts.
The NASA astrophysicist
Barbara Ann Brennan
took instruments and
measured the chakras,
and was able to show
very specifically
that different tonal vibrations
exist in each of these regions.
>> Although variations
exist across traditions,
the chakras are most commonly
understood as a seven-part
system with
individual functions.
The root chakra at
the base of the spine
anchors us in survival,
stability, and safety.
The sacral chakra in the lower
abdomen fuels creativity,
emotions, and sexuality.
The solar plexus chakra
in the upper abdomen
powers our will and self-esteem.
The heart chakra in
the chest connects us
to other people to
love and empathy.
The throat chakra expresses our
communication and authenticity.
The third eye chakra
in the forehead
guides our intuition
and psychic insight.
And at the top, the
crown chakra opens us
to spiritual connection of
universal consciousness.
Intriguingly, modern
science has begun
to link these ancient energy
centers to specific endocrine
glands, suggesting a
deep interconnection
between the body's physiology
and our spiritual essence.
>> Each of the chakras also
relates to a specific endocrine
gland process.
Our endocrine glands
form chemicals
that allow our body to change
into different kinds of states.
So when our throat chakra
is healthy, for example,
our thyroid will
also be healthy.
And interestingly
enough, the thyroid
is in many ways responsible
for our immunity, our ability
to deal with
external influences--
external physical influences,
and radiation, things like that.
So you can see how
the throat chakra
is managing our
physical relationship
with the world around us.
Similarly, if you go
back down the chakras
and you start talking about
things like testosterone,
the root and the
sacral have a lot
to do with the production of
testosterone within our gonads.
And so how we actually feel
safe or not in our bodies
is in many ways of
relating to whether or not
we're releasing these kinds
of chemicals into our body
and/or needing to
have more testosterone
in order to process more
violent kinds of experiences.
So each of our endocrine
glands are, in many ways,
adapting our
physiological structure
to match the needs of our life
experience, which is being
interpreted by the chakras.
>> Traditionally, the chakras
are activated by awakening
the life force, or Kundalini--
the serpentine energy coiled
at the base of the spine--
and drawing it upward.
This rising energy catalyzes
altered states of consciousness,
unlocking access to
higher dimensions.
>> Kundalini energy is the
flow of the chakras energy,
one from the other, going up all
the way to the top of the head.
That energy of life
that is flowing,
which is the center of the
spinal cord, which has fluid
in it, is called the sushumna.
And wherever the flow of energy
from the bottom part of the body
all the way up is
circulating properly,
then you have what is called the
full value of Kundalini, which
is the energy of
life that is usually,
in the tradition, supposed
to go up to the higher value
so that the spiritual
value is emphasized
from the physical
needs and desires.
But its ultimate goal
is to bring it up
to this full awakening in the
higher values of the brain.
>> The experience of Kundalini
is often this growing serpentine
charge that's moving up the
central pillar of the body,
the Ida and Pingala serpents,
traveling along the central
pillar up and down
through the body.
As Kundalini rises
and emerges, it
will surge up through
the body but stop
anywhere there is constriction,
restriction, blockages,
limited beliefs, wherever
we're holding it back.
And so by opening
each of the chakras,
we allow our bodies to
come into greater balance
and allow the Kundalini
to flow through.
Often people going through
a Kundalini awakening
will come up against a
certain level in their body
that the energy
doesn't want to move.
And the Kundalini will
then stimulate new kinds
of experiences in their
life that will, in a way,
force them to look at
this part of themselves,
where they've been
resistant, and start
to melt that resistance,
open up, and allow themselves
to have the full and complete
experience of their reality.
>> In recent years, modern
research has begun to confirm
what age-old practices
have long known,
that we are vibrational beings.
The subtle energy field
that surrounds and permeates
all living beings is now
recognized scientifically
as the biofield--
a field of energy
and information
that plays a fundamental
role in regulating the body's
homeo dynamic functions.
Within the biofield, the
chakras are considered the seven
major energy centers that help
maintain its balance and flow.
>> The human energy field
or biofield is really just
a generative combination
of all of the energy of all
of the matter and all of the
ways that matter forms your DNA,
forms your chromosomes, forms
your cells, forms your organs.
All that energy
and all the protons
and their electrons,
all that electricity
is all co-combining
together, moving up
into larger and
larger structures.
And then each of
those structures
have a specific resonance,
a specific tone,
a vibration that goes with them.
And so our biofield
is, in many ways,
emergent from the
structure of space itself.
We could say that
we are an output
of the universal
lattice of energy
and a specific individualized
instance of that.
But we also have total
sovereignty and command
over this incredible
experience that we're
having within our own bodies.
And I think it's a
very special thing
that we each get to
experience the universe
through our own
individuation, that we all
can be infinitely different,
and that that's also perfect.
>> If we look at the movements
of thought going all the way
back to the thinkers of
the 18th and 19th century,
up through research done by Sir
Arthur Eddington in the 1940s,
1946, who said that
consciousness is really
the study of the
rule of physics,
to more recent research
that has been done in Russia
and in Germany by such
celebrated scientists
as Fritz-Albert Popp, that
the human body was a series
of energy fields that
collectively would define life
or the process of life.
We understand that
the graduation that
is taking place in
science has been
to understand the human
body as a vibratory system
of many fields.
The end result being
that we are now
seeing what could be defined
as a vibratory medicine,
a vibratory psychology, a
vibratory physics of realizing
that acoustical physics is
the key to the understanding
of the human biofield,
without which we are just
dealing with parts.
So, to put it simply,
we are at a stage
now of recognizing
for the first time
that the human biofield,
whether it's the mind
or it's the whole energy
enterprise of evolution,
are all nurtured in
consciousness, capital C.
>> The chakras are not just
energetic ports in our biofield
that connect our bodies to the
vast unified field of energy,
they also function as electrical
capacitors which direct
and store this energy, allowing
us to interpret it and derive
meaning from our experiences.
>> The chakras are the
energy doors or the vibratory
thresholds which allow us to see
the complete synergy of life.
We're beginning to
see how they are all
interconnected with the type
of vibratory orchestration
whereby we are conductors
of our own body.
But by virtue of understanding
the human biofield,
we understand the relationship
of the other fields
that are all converged as a
higher evolutionary process.
>> The chakras can be
individually measured within
our biofield.
And we can see that there's
a direct interaction
between the level
of charge flowing
within our biological field
and the level of charge that's
able to emanate in each
of these major centers
throughout our body.
Now, it's good to keep
in mind that we also
have many, many minor chakras,
smaller vortices of energy that
enter our body in different
zones and energy areas.
For example, each of
the major acupuncture
and acupressure points
within our meridian lines
could be said to
be a minor chakra.
As an electrical body,
you have certain areas
where that electricity is going
to center into capacitors.
And you could look at
the center of each chakra
as a form of
electrical capacitor.
So as the biofuel
is moving, it's
moving, orienting, rotating, and
vortexing around those capacitor
positions to store energy,
route it, and enable
it to be exchanged
and interpreted
between different
parts of our system.
>> The knowledge and practices
for activating the chakras have
been passed down for
thousands of years,
yet it's only in recent
times that science has begun
to thoroughly investigate
the existence, purpose,
and potential of these spinning
energy wheels within the body.
>> Well, we've learned
scientifically that those who
have been studied principally,
the yogis, swamis, the shamans,
under scientific conditions,
have shown that the human heart
rate can be controlled.
The temperature of
the individual organs
can be controlled.
The life cycle can be elongated
with proper chakra resonance.
In fact, the whole
field of medicine
can be turned upside down.
And we can be more life
orientated rather than
death orientated
by understanding
the circulatory mechanisms of
every part of our body, which
is signaled in the way the
chakras were placed again
as the central nodal points.
Our body, in my logic,
is a musical system.
We are a musical instrument
in anatomical form.
And it's only when
we play the chakras,
like musicians played
the flute or the horn,
do we understand
the energy field
or the background of what the
ancient philosophers called
similitude?
When we understand the field
or the background field,
then the chakras
by themselves take
on a higher meaning of a
collective consciousness,
a collective medicine,
a collective psychology.
Of and by themselves, they
are simply abstract concepts
of Eastern philosophy
that have very little
meaning until recent scientific
investigations by my colleagues.
>> If chakras are the individual
gateways through which we
connect to the quantum field,
then how do we actually engage
with this vast cosmic energy?
And what does this advanced
biotechnology within our bodies
reveal about our intended
relationship with the universe?
>> We can see an intersection
in our understanding of quantum
mechanics with the chakra system
and our experience of reality
by understanding that we're in
what's called a quantum wave
field.
The quantum wave field has many
different vibrational states.
And everything that we
experience is in one or more
of these states.
Now, we must have some way to
interact with these states.
We have to.
And it's more than just
our tissues of our cells
and our nervous system
coming into contact
with objects around us.
We have deeper,
innate vehicles that
are able to interpret
these quantum states
and translate those to
emotions, translate those
to mental visualizations,
translate those
to interpersonal experience.
So the chakras, I
believe, also can
teach us how to work with
our quantum functions
and how to engage with the
quantum field in deeper
and more profound ways.
It's almost as if we were
designed with an augmentation
system, an advanced technology
that would enable us to relate
with the universe in fantastic
and almost unimaginably advanced
ways.
And so each chakra has a
particular vibrational,
structural, geometric
interface that's
able to speak to parts of
the physics of space time.
The root chakra is talking
to the physical world.
The solar plexus is talking
to the astral plane.
The sacral is talking
to the emotional field.
>> While the intricate workings
of the chakras elude definitive
scientific proof,
there are time-honored,
evidence-backed practices
that allow us to experience
the transformative power of full
chakra activation first hand,
offering a profound glimpse
into what it feels like to tap
into our true potential.
>> The chakras become activated
when you clear the energy
of your emotional body,
of your intellectual mind,
and when you align that
to the cosmos, to
who you truly are.
Then you become the vessel--
one could even say the channel--
of bringing forth divine energy.
>> Balancing the chakras is
actually about spending time
and awareness with each of
the areas of reality that
our chakras manage.
So if we're trying to get
physically more healthy,
spend some time with
your root chakra
and meditate on the balance
of fire, air, earth,
and water in your body.
Get to know how well
you're nourishing each
of these aspects of your body.
Similarly, if you're
working on balancing
your stomach and your mind
and you want your solar plexus
to be healthy, spend
some time looking
at how you've created belief
systems in your mind that
may not be serving you.
Simply by questioning
your own beliefs,
opening up your
mental experience,
and allowing yourself
to have a new belief
structure about reality,
you can completely
transform your belly
and your solar plexus.
So ultimately, the
practice of developing
our spiritual capacity
to accept ourselves
at every single level
and whatever practices
you do in order to
facilitate that,
whether that's yoga, or Tai
Chi, or a martial arts form,
getting to know each and
every layer of ourselves
is the journey of
balancing the chakras,
but it's also the
journey of awakening
our beings to the deeper
truth of all that is.
>> For the full value
to be expressed,
we have to enliven all the
aspects of our physiology.
And the chakra
system is how we can
enliven the different aspects.
Rather than going to this
organ, that organ, this cell,
that cell, that small
tissue, that other tissue,
they grouped them into those
centers of the whole area,
like we have seen
with the pineal gland.
Centers are seen as the
confluence and the area
where the entire system
can be managed from.
So when you put your attention
on the center of something,
you are enlivening
the entire area.
So since our body is the
expression of total natural law,
in order to live the
full potential of life,
we have to enliven all
the areas of our life.
>> Activating the full potential
of our chakras and alchemically
transmuting what arises
in the process seems to be
an inevitable part
of the human journey.
But what does this
inner technology
reveal about our collective
evolution as a species?
>> Through my own work with the
chakras and my own awakening
process, I realized that
my body is holographically
interconnected with the whole
universe from the smallest
scales up to the largest, and
that when you simply follow
the chain of scale through
each layer of the universe,
all of it reveals itself.
It turns out that the nucleus
of an atom and the nucleus
of a cell are actually both
related to the root chakra,
and that the DNA and
the geometry of our DNA
is absolutely related to our
heart and the organs in our body
that interconnect
everything together,
and is related to the spiral
of our galaxy that we're in.
So we're in this
incredible state
of communion, what
I like to call
the unified harmonic matrix.
And we're a part
of that symphony.
We're not isolated from it.
Everything at every
level is singing.
And our chakras can help us
balance and interpret that song
so that we're playing
our instrument full out.
>> It's very important
to realize, I believe,
we're at a phase of planetary
history where the veils between
this reality and the next
reality are moving away.
And for those who
seek the light, who
want to help humanity,
we are able, all of us,
to connect to the
higher divine realities.
So it's important to connect
our seven chakras to our higher
self, who have the insights
and the accompaniment
of the angelic choir of angels
who are here to help us.
We are waking up.
We are understanding.
We are no longer alone.
And we're not just physical
beings at this time.
>> The chakras go
beyond the human body,
stepping stones to the
universal body of light.
We are at an amazing time of
recognizing that the chakra
system is a blueprint of a
multievolutionary process,
through which we begin to
grasp we are, in essence,
light beings in human form,
returning to the greater light.
>> If the chakras are portals
through which we access
the infinite, illuminating
our profound connection
to the cosmos, then unlocking
their full potential
doesn't merely help us evolve.
It redefines what it
means to be human.
Thank you for watching
Divine Science
and exploring the
extraordinary connections that
shape our existence.